When iteratively writing code, there will happen to tidy up the code and hide complexity therein in several different ways. We can look at various constructs in programming languages as different ways to hide complexity and tidy up the code.

- **Variables**: when an expression, possibly significantly complex, is repeated many times in the code, it is worth to hide it behind a variable, to improve readability
- **Functions**: when a piece of code consisting of several lines is applied more than once to the same or to different data sources, then it is worth abstracting its functioning from the specific inputs and transforming it into a function. This improves readability (I only read *what* is happening, i.e. the function name, and not how), maintainability (the code run is always the same, so there is less possible points where one can make mistakes and it can be tested more easily), and program dimension (less lines of code overall).

A general principle that both variables and functions allow to implement is ti *avoid boilerplate code*. Especially in development and experimental environments like Jupyter Notebooks [38_jupyter_notebooks_best_practices](38_jupyter_notebooks_best_practices.md), it will happen to have lots of chunks of code repeated. On one hand, writing functions to abstract some data manipulation from the actual data source will allow to reduce the impact of this problem. On the other hand, a careful design of data sources structure will allow to systematically (iteratively?) apply the designed functions on the different inputs. This will allow to further avoid boilerplate code in two ways:
1. we can systematically apply the function over the inputs, instead of writing many function calls; but, most importantly,
2. we can do this because the input data sources all have a common format (design of data sources structure), and thus we can apply the same procedures to them all.