## How to dynamically create objects attributes
In Python, classes and objects have a lot of strange properties. One of these is being able to dynamically create attributes for objects once they have already been instantiated. This can be done thanks to a special attribute of the object called the `__dict__`, which maintains the names and values of the object's attributes.

In ML it happens a lot of times that we need to instantiate some object that needs a lot of parameters as input (e.g. an environment, or a model) in order to customize and experiment with its behaviour. Having a class definition with all the expected parameters explicitly written can become very heavy, although it can be considered clear and self-documenting. Moreover, this syntax makes the instantiation of the class itself heavy, necessitating to pass all the parameters explicitly, when none of them is left with its default value.

I have found what I think can be a valid alternative to this way of defining and instantiating classes, which leverages the `__slots__` special attributes of Python `object` subclasses, and `object`'s method `setattr`. 

What we do is basically create a class which is an instance of `object` in order to be able to define the special attribute `__slots__`, which is a definition of all the names of the expected attributes of the class. This is in contrast with the flexibility provided by the `__dict__` attribute, however that can still be obtained with some workaround (see article at the end). Then, we write the class' `__init__` method definition providing `kwargs`. The explicit list of the expected attributes will still be present in the `__slots__` variable, which we will instantiate in the constructor itself. Then, we iterate over the values in `__slots__`, initializing them with the values passed as keyword arguments, or to `None` if they were not present in the parameters. 

If any values in the keyword arguments are not to be used as object attributes, we can still access them as attributes of the `kwargs` dictionary and used in the constructor for other purposes.

For more detailed examples, refer to [this Stackoverflow answer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/472000/usage-of-slots); [here](https://codereview.stackexchange.com/questions/171107/python-class-initialize-with-dict) the post I got the hint from.