### Data collection and sampling
To answer the research questions outlined above, we have sampled both submissions and comments from Reddit in a time span ranging from the beginning of 2013 to the end of 2019. We also define a *user profile* as a vector describing the activity of a given user on Reddit in the specific moment in time when she posted a submission on a given subreddit. More specifically, we have observed the activity of the user on specific subreddits (which we call *sociopolitical subreddits*) in the period of time starting one year before and ending one year after the date of the given submission. Among the several ways in which user activity on a given subreddit can be defined, we have chosen to consider the loose definition of *commenting* activity of the user on a given subreddit. So, if a user has commented on a subreddit in the year before a submission, she is considered to be active on that subreddit in that time span and her activity profile will reflect this. We have chosen to define activity based on the comments written by users (rather than based on submissions or subscriptions to subreddits) since in this way we are able to capture more nuanced and subtle variability in the user activity on each sociopolitical community.

Furthermore, in order to capture the variability of user activity even better and to control the effect of different popularity of the subreddits on our analyses, we have defined two versions of profiles:
- **boolean profiles**, in which user participation to a subreddit is described in all-or-none terms, only distinguishing whether she participated to the subreddit *before* or *after* the submission which the profile is attached to, or both. For example, if the user participated to the subreddit *atheism* before the submission but not after, the element of its profile corresponding to that subreddit will be $B$; if the contrary is true, the element will be $A$; if it participated both before and after the submission or didn't participate at all, the element will be $X$ or empty, respectively.
- **numerical profiles**, in which the participation to a subreddit is described in terms of the number of comments written on the subreddit by the user before and after the submission. A possible entry corresponding to the *atheism* subreddit in a numerical profile could be $(0,4)$ or $(5,2)$.

The dataset we used in the final analyses presented in this work consisted in posts written by users either on Change My View or on AskReddit, together with the user's profile at the time of the submission. In particular, the Change My View dataset was restricted to submissions regarding "sociopolitical topics", e.g. ==filtering the discussions regarding movies, TV Series or small talk [*is this correct?*]==. The Change My View dataset was further subdivided into two subgroups, the Delta and non-Delta subgroups, depending on the fact that in the discussion stemming from the submission the original poster (OP) assigned at least one Delta or not. This subdivision was useful to investigate specifically the impact of *declared* opinion change on the user's behaviour change in the future.

[*statistics about the CMV dataset?*]

In order to make a fair comparison between the group of participants to CMV and the one of participants to AskReddit, we have further resampled the dataset of posts on AskReddit creating two versions, controlling users' activity on Reddit in general and users' activity on sociopolitical subreddits, respectively. In the first case, we measured user activity on Reddit with an "activity statistic" defined as the mean number of comments written by that user each month. ==We have used a proxy for this quantity for participants to CMV [*should we change this?*]==, computing the activity statistic considering only comments written on CMV. Instead, for the AskReddit group, we have computed this quantity considering comments written by the user on any board on Reddit. We have then computed the quartiles of the distribution of the activity statistic in the CMV group and resampled the users in the AskReddit group in such a way that the quartiles of the distribution of the activity statistic were the same as the ones in the CMV group.

The second version of the resampled dataset was necessary because it often happens that users that participate to AskReddit do not participate to sociopolitical subreddits as much as users in CMV. To perform this resampling we have thus computed the distribution of *profile density* in the CMV group, defined as the number of non-empty elements in the boolean profiles vectors. We have then considered the values of profile density covering up to the 99% of the posts in the CMV sample and resampled the authors in the AskReddit group in such a way that the same proportion of profile densities was present in the group. Since one author can appear more than once in a sample (i.e. she wrote more than one post), we always considered the last post written by each user when computing the distribution of profile densities.