---
title: Reservoir Memory Machines as Neural Computers
aliases: ["Reservoir Memory Machines as Neural Computers"]
authors: Benjamin Paassen, Alexander Schulz, Terrence C. Stewart, Barbara Hammer
year: 2021
abstract: Differentiable neural computers (DNCs) extend artificial neural networks with an explicit memory without interference, thus enabling the model to perform classic computation tasks, such as graph traversal. However, such models are difficult to train, requiring long training times and large datasets. In this work, we achieve some of the computational capabilities of DNCs with a model that can be trained very efficiently, namely, an echo state network with an explicit memory without interference. This extension enables echo state networks to recognize all regular languages, including those that contractive echo state networks provably cannot recognize. Furthermore, we demonstrate experimentally that our model performs comparably to its fully trained deep version on several typical benchmark tasks for DNCs.
---
# Reservoir Memory Machines as Neural Computers

<p style="text-align: right">
<a href="
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9482563/
">
<i>
Benjamin Paassen, Alexander Schulz, Terrence C. Stewart, Barbara Hammer, 2021</i>
</a>
</p>

***

[code](https://gitlab.com/bpaassen/rmm)

Main topic: obtaining some of the performances of DNC with an ESN with a memory.

Main claims: 
- the Reservoir Memory Machine (RMM) is faster to train and requires less data
- the RMM can recognize all regular languages
- the RMM, partially trained, performs comparably to its fully trained version.

***

The authors propose a new model (RMM) with which they obtain performances similar to those of DNC.

Tasks · The architecture was trained to solve the following tasks: latch, copy, repeat copy, associative recall, smooth associative recall, image recall, Finite State Machines.

Memory · The memory is a store of hidden states of the recurrent network. The memory is addressable, and the address is generated by a classifier which receives a hidden state as input. When the address produced by the classifier is different from 0, the hidden state is written into memory or read from it, if it's not the first time the memory is accessed. Does this mean that the memory can only be written once? It seems so (see sec. III part A).
The authors used an SVM as classifier to generate memory addresses. Note that since the address generator is a separate classifier it needs to be trained as well and therefore examples of memory addresses must be generated (see sec. IV part B).

Proofs ·  The authors formally prove the computational power of RMM, showing that they are more expressive than simple ESN and can recognize regular languages.

Results · The performance of RMM is directly compared with that of three other reservoir networks, with a GRU and with a fully trained version of the RMM (GRU-MM). Furthermore, the RMM is implemented in three different versions, depending on the kind of reservoir used. The results are only indirectly compared with those of DNC, and considering the tasks they would perhaps be more comparable to those of NTM.